Port srlinux to lsm quickstart (#31)
inmanta/examples: lsm-srlinux/README.md

> # SR Linux Module

Reviewer: About this File:

1. This is purely an introduction to srlinux, nothing is said about lsm? I think it doesn't introduce the content very well.  
2. it uses the open source container, which doesn't have lsm at all, it doesn't mention how to replace the token, ... 
3. I think this can be a copy of the quickstart, as it exists in the https://github.com/inmanta/lsm/pull/556,  (with a link to that content in the docs, when it is merge)
4. @bartv shouldn't we group all lsm things in a folder?

Author: I'll wait to change this until we have a final version of the quickstart.

Table of contents:

- [SR Linux Module](#sr-linux-module)
  - [Introduction](#introduction)
  - [SR Linux Topology](#sr-linux-topology)
  - [Using The Open-source Inmanta Service Orchestrator](#using-the-open-source-inmanta-service-orchestrator)
  - [Starting The Containers](#starting-the-containers)
  - [Connecting to the Inmanta Container](#connecting-to-the-inmanta-container)
    - [Create a New Environment](#create-a-new-environment)
  - [Connecting to the SR Linux Containers](#connecting-to-the-sr-linux-containers)
  - [Applying the examples](#applying-the-examples)
  - [Additional Commands](#additional-commands)

## Introduction

This repository showcases our `SR Linux` module and has a few examples to get you started with Inmanta.

The provided examples in the `*.cf` files can be applied on `SR Linux` devices either on:

- A device that you already have and by changing the IP address, port, etc... in the examples files
- Or using [containerlab](https://containerlab.srlinux.dev/) with the provided [topology file](containerlab/topology.yml).

  > Install containerlab using [this link](https://containerlab.dev/install)

> In case of choosing the `containerlab` option, it is worthwhile to mention that you need to have a `SR Linux` Docker image present on the host machine running `containerlab` and having it **tagged** similar to the topology file; in this case: `ghcr.io/nokia/srlinux`.

Reviewer: it is not automatically downloaded? 

If it is, I would drop line 27 up until 35, it just causes confusion.

The `SR Linux` docker image can be pulled using:

```bash
sudo docker pull ghcr.io/nokia/srlinux
```

Furthermore, if the `SR Linux` docker image is missing on your machine, it will be pulled by the `Containerlab` automatically.

## SR Linux Topology

The `SR Linux` topology alongside the IP addresses is depicted as follows:

![srlinux.png](containerlab/srlinux.png)

## Using The Open-source Inmanta Service Orchestrator

> Inmanta [Service Orchestrator](https://inmanta.com/service-orchestrator/) is another containerized piece that can supply a GUI, providing many useful information such as deployment process, agents status and so much more. This container can be manually pulled by:

Reviewer: I would drop this entire sub-section, as it doesn't really provide any concrete information and it happens automatically anyways.

manager (LSM). A high-level overview will be given on how Inmanta LSM
can be used to model and provision new services within a certain
infrastructure. This quickstart considers a basic service, which creates
and updates the IP of a given interface.

Overview setup
--------------

The figure shown below, gives an overview of the infrastructure required
to execute this quickstart. The infrastructure consists of:

1.  An Inmanta Service Orchestrator with LSM
2.  Three SR Linux routers (spine, leaf1, leaf2)
3.  An internet connection

![Overview setup](images/setup.png)

The SR Linux routers in this guide are setup as a 3-node CLOS network
with a spine and two leaf switches. `mgmt` is the management interface
of the SR Linux routers and the Inmanta Service Orchestrator making them
reachable over the management network (172.30.0.0/24).

The service modelled in the following section manages the association of
IP-addresses to any interface of the SR Linux routers.

Prerequisites
-------------

This guide assumes that you already finished the
[quickstart](https://docs.inmanta.com/inmanta-service-orchestrator/5/quickstart.html). so if you
haven\'t followed that one, please start with it.

> **Make sure that you have the necessary sensitive information**, namely:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Make sure that you have the necessary license information**, namely:
```

-   Credentials to the package repository;
-   Entitlement file;
-   License file.

> 1.  Follow the

Reviewer: I think it makes more sense to copy paste the setups here, entirely, to improve copy-paste-ability of the instructions

>     [quickstart prerequisites](https://docs.inmanta.com/inmanta-service-orchestrator/5/quickstart.html#prerequisites) until step 4

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    [quickstart prerequisites](https://docs.inmanta.com/inmanta-service-orchestrator/latest/quickstart.html#prerequisites) until step 4
```

2.  Change directory to the LSM SR Linux example:

``` {.}
$ cd examples/lsm-srlinux
```

This folder contains a project.yml, which looks like this:

``` {.}
name: LSM SR Linux Example
description: Provides and example of a LSM use case with SR Linux.
author: Inmanta
author_email: code@inmanta.com
license: ASL 2.0
copyright: 2022 Inmanta
modulepath: libs
downloadpath: libs
repo:
- type: package
    url: https://packages.inmanta.com/public/quickstart/python/simple/
- type: package
    url: https://packages.inmanta.com/<token>/inmanta-service-orchestrator-6-stable/python/simple/
install_mode: release
requires:
```

> **_NOTE:_**
Additional explanation of each field can be found on the [quickstart](https://docs.inmanta.com/inmanta-service-orchestrator/5/quickstart.html).

> 3.  Change the \<token\> in the repo url to the password that you

Reviewer: It is not clear this refers to the `Credentials to the package repository` from the perquisites section.

    )

    subinterface = srinterface::Subinterface(
        parent_interface = interface,
        x_index = 0,
        ipv4 = subinterface_address
    )

    subinterface_address = srsubinterface::Ipv4(
        parent_subinterface = subinterface,
        address = sripv4::Address(
            parent_ipv4 = subinterface_address,
            ip_prefix = self.address
        )
    )

end

binding = lsm::ServiceEntityBinding(
    service_entity="__config__::InterfaceIPAssignment",
    lifecycle=lsm::fsm::simple,
    service_entity_name="interface-ip-assignment",
)

for assignment in lsm::all(binding):
    InterfaceIPAssignment(
        instance_id=assignment["id"],
        router_ip=assignment["attributes"]["router_ip"],
        router_name=assignment["attributes"]["router_name"],
        interface_name=assignment["attributes"]["interface_name"],
        address=assignment["attributes"]["address"],
        entity_binding=binding,
    )
end
```

-   Lines 1 to 7 import several modules required by this configuration
    model.
-   Lines 9 to 26 define the API of the new service, i.e. the attributes
    required to instantiate a new instance of the service. The

>     ÃŽnterfaceIPAssignment entity defines four attributes: router\_ip,

Reviewer: Weird character here?

>     ÃŽnterfaceIPAssignment entity defines four attributes: router\_ip,

Reviewer: All source code strings should be quoted to get the right style, applies to all the following as well.

```suggestion
    ÃŽnterfaceIPAssignment entity defines four attributes: `router\_ip`,
```

Install the orchestration model onto the Inmanta server
-------------------------------------------------------

Go back to the previous folder and
[create an Inmanta project and environment](https://docs.inmanta.com/inmanta-service-orchestrator/5/quickstart.html#connecting-to-the-containers).

The following command executes a script to copy the required resources
to a specific folder inside the container.

``` {.}
$ docker exec -ti -w /code clab-srlinux-inmanta-server  /code/setup.sh
```

Afterwards, open the web-console, in this example it is on
<http://172.30.0.3:8888/console/>. This IP-address can be configured in
`containerlab/topology.html` under the `mgmt_ipv4` of the
`inmanta-server`.

![interface-ip-assignment service in service catalog](images/empty-service-catalog.png)

Click on the `Update Service Catalog` button. This will make the new
`interface-ip-assignment` service known by the Inmanta orchestrator,
making it possible to create new instances of this service via the LSM
API or via the Inmanta web-console.

Clicking on the button will:

-   Pull the code from the git repository to the container, when
    applicable;

> -   The orchestrator will then install the project;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   install the project
```

and updates the IP of a given interface.

Overview setup
--------------

The figure shown below, gives an overview of the infrastructure required
to execute this quickstart. The infrastructure consists of:

1.  An Inmanta Service Orchestrator with LSM
2.  Three SR Linux routers (spine, leaf1, leaf2)
3.  An internet connection

![Overview setup](images/setup.png)

The SR Linux routers in this guide are setup as a 3-node CLOS network
with a spine and two leaf switches. `mgmt` is the management interface
of the SR Linux routers and the Inmanta Service Orchestrator making them
reachable over the management network (172.30.0.0/24).

The service modelled in the following section manages the association of
IP-addresses to any interface of the SR Linux routers.

Prerequisites
-------------

This guide assumes that you already finished the
[quickstart](https://docs.inmanta.com/inmanta-service-orchestrator/latest/quickstart.html). so if you
haven\'t followed that one, please start with it.

**Make sure that you have the necessary license information**, namely:

-   Credentials to the package repository;
-   Entitlement file;
-   License file.

> **Python version 3.9**, Docker, Containerlab and Inmanta need to be installed on your machine and our examples repository has to be cloned in order to proceed. Please make sure to follow the links below to that end.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Python version 3.9**, needs to be installed on your machine.
```

1.  [Install Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/).

2.  [Install Containerlab](https://containerlab.dev/install/).

3.  Prepare a development environment by creating a python virtual environment and installing Inmanta:

``` {.}
$ mkdir -p ~/.virtualenvs
$ python3 -m venv ~/.virtualenvs/lsm-srlinux
$ source ~/.virtualenvs/lsm-srlinux/bin/activate
$ pip install inmanta
```

4.  Change directory to the LSM SR Linux example:

``` {.}
$ cd examples/lsm-srlinux
```

This folder contains a project.yml, which looks like this:

``` {.}
name: LSM SR Linux Example
description: Provides and example of a LSM use case with SR Linux.
author: Inmanta
author_email: code@inmanta.com
license: ASL 2.0
copyright: 2022 Inmanta
modulepath: libs
downloadpath: libs
repo:
- type: package
    url: https://packages.inmanta.com/public/quickstart/python/simple/
- type: package
    url: https://packages.inmanta.com/<token>/inmanta-service-orchestrator-6-stable/python/simple/
install_mode: release
requires:
```

> **_NOTE:_**
Additional explanation of each field can be found on the [quickstart](https://docs.inmanta.com/inmanta-service-orchestrator/latest/quickstart.html).

> 5.  Change the \<token\> in the repo url to the credentials to the package repository that you received.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5.  Change the \<token\> in the repo url to the credentials to the package repository (see Prerequisites section).
```
